---
title: Diversity statement
sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
permalink: diversity_statement.html
---

# Overview
Academia and academic leaders have an incredible responsibility to lead the world in advancing research at the frontiers of our shared knowledge.  Diversity is the most important tool for ensuring that every domain expert is advancing intellectual and broader impacts.  Here are three similes to describe why diversity first is the most efficient strategy and critical requirement for effective research and education:

1)     Reproduction of knowledge benefits from diversity like genetic diversity benefits from sexual reproduction.  Diversity is key to the evolution of our species, and we need that evolution to include all intellectual contributions to continue adaptation.

2)     Inspiration to build knowledge depends on diversity as much as music is defined by the synthesis of various parts.  Without integrating a spectrum of tone, pitch, and rhythm, it’s not music at all – without diversity, our academic efforts are more likely to be just noise.

3)     Innovation in research and education are generated by diversity like a healthy democracy benefits from a respectful dialogue presenting a range of perspectives and contrasting ideas.  Innovation does not happen in a homogenous environment limited by the bounds of a common set of ideas.

 

Diversity yields reproduction of knowledge, inspiration, and innovation when the sum of the parts is crafted to coexist harmoniously.  The sum of the parts is greater than the whole when the parts remain intact AND something new is created from the collaboration.  It is a solemn task and hard work to respectfully synthesize the latest approaches to create learning environments where diverse contributors can thrive.  In reality, most academics are products of a meritocracy with toxic hierarchical dependencies that require reframing, emotional intelligence, and a daily commitment to uncovering unconscious bias. Training and cultural awareness on how to integrate diversity and inclusion into our academic work is emerging as a new status quo. I expect the short and long-term outcomes will include both domain science merit and generation of a scientific workforce whom the public taxpayers trust and are committed to support.    The chaos of life on our planet has synthesized a dynamic set of problems for scientists and engineers. These problems can be converted to opportunities when we put diversity to work in a scaffold of our collective knowledge. 

